# Dataset Licensing

To legally publish a dataset on the IDEAMAPS Data Ecosystem platform, the dataset owner must provide a license that allows the dataset to be **publicly presented** and **validated** on the IDEAMAPS Data Ecosystem platform.

This license must cover the conditions set out in this document and be provided to a platform administrator.

### Table of Contents
- [Publication Purpose](#publication-purpose)
- [Content of the License](#content-of-the-license)
- [Ownership](#ownership)
  - [Ownership of the Dataset](#ownership-of-the-dataset)
  - [Ownership of the Validation Results](#ownership-of-the-validation-results)
- [License Types and Examples](#license-types-and-examples)

### Publication Purpose
There are 2 purposes for publishing a dataset on the IDEAMAPS Data Ecosystem platform:
1. To make the data available for public exploration.
2. To improve the quality of the data by allowing the data to be validated.

> To understand more about if a dataset is suitable for publication on the IDEAMAPS Data Ecosystem platform, please refer to the [Criteria for Inclusion](./criteria-for-inclusion.md) documentation.

### Content of the License

A license document that covers the publication of a dataset on the IDEAMAPS Data Ecosystem platform should indicate that the dataset owner agrees to the following terms and conditions:

1. IDEAMAPS Data Ecosystem are free to publish, distribute and transmit the information contained within the dataset.
2. IDEAMAPS Data Ecosystem are free to put the information contained within the dataset forward for the purpose of validating the data.
3. IDEAMAPS Data Ecosystem must attribute the dataset owner as the source of the dataset.
4. IDEAMAPS Data Ecosystem are not permitted to publish, distribute or transmit a remixed or transformed version of the dataset.  
5. No party is permitted to use the information contained within the published dataset for commercial purposes.
6. The dataset owner retains ownership of the dataset and has the right to remove the dataset from the IDEAMAPS Data Ecosystem platform at any time.
7. IDEAMAPS Data Ecosystem retains ownership of the validation results pertaining to the dataset.
8. IDEAMAPS Data Ecosystem has a responsibility to provide the dataset owner with a copy of the validation results for their dataset in a usable format at any point.

### Ownership

#### Ownership of the Dataset
The dataset owner must be the legal owner of the dataset and have the right to publish the dataset on the IDEAMAPS Data Ecosystem platform.

Upon transfer of the data to IDEAMAPS Data Ecosystem for publication purposes, the dataset owner will retain ownership of the dataset.

The dataset owner will therefore have the right to remove the dataset from the IDEAMAPS Data Ecosystem platform at any time.

#### Ownership of the Validation Results
Validation results are generated by users of the IDEAMAPS Data Ecosystem platform. Each validation result is specific to a dataset published on the platform.

Although the dataset owner retains ownership of the dataset, the validation results are owned by IDEAMAPS Data Ecosystem.

These validation results are stored in a database within the IDEAMAPS Data Ecosystem's IT infrastructure. The dataset owner has the right to request a copy of the validation results for their dataset in a usable format at any point.

The format of the validation results will be determined by IDEAMAPS Data Ecosystem.


### License Types and Examples

When seeking to publish datasets on the IDEAMAPS Data Ecosystem platform, the dataset owner can submit either their own license for publication on the IDEAMAPS Data Ecosystem platform or choose an open data license that is suitable.

The following are examples of popular data licenses that are suitable for dataset publication on the IDEAMAPS Data Ecosystem platform:

1. [Creative Commons Attribution-Non-Commercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/)
2. [Open Data Commons Open Database License (ODbL)](https://opendatacommons.org/licenses/odbl/)

There are many other licenses that are suitable for publication on the IDEAMAPS Data Ecosystem platform. The dataset owner is advised to create or choose a license that is suitable for their dataset and that allows the dataset to be publicly presented and validated on the IDEAMAPS Data Ecosystem platform.